# ChordProgression
This repository is home to a Constraint programming project aiming to generate 
successions of chords respecting the rules of tonal music. It can produce chord progressions
expressed as chord degrees in a tonality along with a quality and a state, and can account for 
modulations. 
It uses [Diatony](https://github.com/sprockeelsd/Diatony) to generate a 4-voice texture 
based on the output generated by this program (in the form of Chord degree - 
state - quality tuples). It offers "mandatory rules" that are applied by default and 
that are essential to tonal harmony, as well as optional rules (e.g. forcing cadences 
at certain points in the progression) that composers can use to enforce their personal 
preferences. It is planned to tie this program to an interface in the future to make 
it easier to use by composers. The details of the model along with a mathematical explanation 
and the description of the global project can be found in **todo add the paper to the repo**.

## Structure
The repository is organised as follows: 
- The ***Diatony*** folder is a submodule of the repository of the same name. This 
allows to control what version of Diatony is used, to make sure that new additions 
to the former don't break this program.
- The ***headers*** folder contains all the header files inherent to this project. 
It contains the code that has no logical function, mainly the music theory matrices.
- The ***out*** folder contains all the generated files.
- The ***src*** folder contains the source code for the problem, including the 
constraints' definition and a main function showing how the model can be used.

## Makefile
The makefile compiles all the files from the Diatony Library, and offers different 
targets:
- clean: removes all generated temporary files.
- compile: executes the "clean" target and compiles all the necessary files, and 
makes sure that the executable is able to find Gecode.
- run: executes the "compile" target and runs the executable with "false" as an argument,
meaning that it does not generate the 4-voice texture.
- 4voice: executes the "compile" target and runs the executable with "true" as an 
argument, meaning that it generates the 4-voice texture using Diatony.
